Mds/okta 704299 terraform/okta 733728 04 articles and menu change (#5116)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/terraform-manage-multiple-domains/main/index.md

---
title: Manage custom domains with Terraform
excerpt: Create and manage multiple domain names in your Okta org.
layout: Guides
---

Create and manage multiple domain names in your Okta org.

---

#### Learning outcomes

> * Add a custom domain to your org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a custom domain to your org.
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

#### What you need

> * Familiarity with Terraform terms: configuration, resources, and commands. See the Terraform documentation [introductory concepts](https://www.terraform-best-practices.com/key-concepts) article. Also, see the [introduction page for Okta Terraform automation](/docs/guides/terraform-overview/main/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Familiarity with Terraform terms: configuration, resources, and commands. See the Terraform documentation [introductory concepts](https://www.terraform-best-practices.com/key-concepts). Also, see the [introduction page for Okta Terraform automation](/docs/guides/terraform-overview/main/).
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

> * An Okta organization that uses the Okta Identity Engine (the default for newer Okta accounts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An Okta org that uses the Identity Engine (the default for newer Okta accounts)
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

> * A [Terraform configuration](/docs/guides/terraform-enable-org-access/) that can access your Okta org.

Author: Fix is in next commit.

> * An Okta user account with the Super Administrator role.

Author: Fix is in next commit.

> * An ability to view and change the DNS records for domains, such as `example.com`, and subdomains, such as `my-brand.example.com`, used for your Okta org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An ability to view and change the DNS records for domains, such as `example.com`, and subdomains, such as `my-brand.example.com`, used for your Okta org
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

> * A valid 2048-bit PEM-encoded TLS certificate for your subdomain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A valid 2048-bit PEM-encoded TLS certificate for your subdomain
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

> * Terraform 1.8.5 or later.

Author: Fix is in next commit.

> * Okta Terraform provider 4.9.1 or later.

Author: Fix is in next commit.

## Overview

> You can customize the domain name of your okta org. You can also create up to three custom domains if your org includes the multibrand feature. For more information on custom domains, see [About Okta domain customization](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/main/#about-okta-domain-customization) in [Customize domain and email address](/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/).

Author: Fix is in next commit.

> Your customized domain enables creating a seamless branded experience for your users so that all URLs look like your app. For example, you can change the URL domain from the default to `my-example-org.com`.

Author: Fix is in next commit.

> The multibrand customization feature enables customizing multiple domains and subdomains in addition to hosted org. To manage branding for a custom domain in Terraform, first follow the instructions in this article to create custom domains, and create resources that encapsulate your customizations. Then [create a new brand](docs/guides/terraform-manage-end-user-experience/main/#create-a-new-brand-requires-multibrand-customization) and add yoru customizations.

Author: Fix is in next commit.

### Set up your Terraform files

For guidance on organizing your files, see [setting up a typical Okta Terraform configuration](/docs/guides/terraform-organize-configuration/main/#configure-a-basic-okta-terraform-configuration). Consider organizing your Terraform code in a way that groups related resources together. For example, you could create a Terraform file called `brands.tf` that contains custom domains, brands, and themes.

## Add or confirm the API scopes

To manage domains, the API scopes in your Terraform integration must include `okta.domains.manage`.

> To grant scopes in the Admin Console and to include them in your Terraform code, see the articles on [enabling your API service application for Terraform access](/docs/guides/terraform-enable-org-access/) and [setting up a typical Okta Terraform configuration](/docs/guides/terraform-organize-configuration/).

Author: Fix is in next commit.

## Add a custom domain in Terraform

> Creating and adding a custom domain takes several steps that must be completed in order. At least one of the steps may require waiting for up to a day. The steps are:

Author: Fix is in next commit.

1. [Create an okta-domain resource](#create-a-custom-domain-resource).

1. [Update the domain with the `CNAME` and `TXT` records](#update-the-domain-with-the-cname-and-txt-records).

1. [Request domain verification](#request-domain-verification).

> 1. [Confirm your custom domain triggers Okta sign-in](#confirm-your-custom-domain-triggers-okta-sign-in).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Confirm that your custom domain triggers an Okta sign-in flow](#confirm-your-custom-domain-triggers-okta-sign-in).
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

1. [Update other objects and systems to use your custom domain](#update-other-objects-and-systems-to-use-your-custom-domain).

### Create a custom domain resource

1. Add an [okta-domain](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/domain) Terraform resource to your configuration for the new domain.

1. Set the `name` field to the domain name, such as `"example.com"`.

1. Set the certificate source type:

    It's recommended to enable Okta management of the certificate by setting the source-type attribute:

      `certificate_source_type = "OKTA_MANAGED"`

>     Some organizations and pricing options do not support certificates managed by Okta. If you are unsure or want to migrate a manual certificate to an Okta-managed certificate, contact Okta Support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Some orgs and pricing options don't support certificates managed by Okta. If you are unsure or want to migrate a manual certificate to an Okta-managed certificate, contact Okta Support.
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

>     The following code shows an example resource for an Okta-managed certificate for the domain `company1.example.com` of company1.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following code shows an example resource for an Okta-managed certificate for the domain `company1.example.com` of company1:
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

    ```hcl
    resource "okta_domain" "company1" {
      name = "company1.letsauth0.com"
      certificate_source_type = "OKTA_MANAGED"
    }
    ```

> > **Note:** If you maintain the custom domain's [Certificate Authority Authorization (CAA)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6844) record, add `letsencrypt.org` to the issuers list. This enables Okta to obtain and renew the TLS certificate. You must also do this if you start maintaining the CAA record after first only using the Okta certificate. For more information, see [Let's Encrypt—Using CAA](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/caa/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If you maintain the custom domain's [Certificate Authority Authorization (CAA)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6844) record, add `letsencrypt.org` to the issuers list. This enables Okta to obtain and renew the TLS certificate. You must also do this if you initially used only the Okta certification, but are now maintaining the CAA record. See [Let's Encrypt—Using CAA](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/caa/).
```

Author: A slight change: the portion above that reads "Okta certification, but" should read "Okta certificate, but"... which is how the change is implemented in the next commit.

    ```hcl
      certificate_source_type = "MANUAL"
    ```

The TLS certificate for your subdomain must be PEM-encoded and use a 2048-bit PEM-encoded private key.

Okta performs validation checks on the certificate that you upload. If your TLS certificate is a wildcard certificate, it must include the full URL in the Common Name (CN) or Subject Alternative Name (SAN) when generated. Otherwise, the following error occurs when you attempt to upload the certificate: "The specified certificate does not match your Custom URL Domain." If you receive this error, ask the person in your organization responsible for generating certificates to determine whether your TLS certificate is a wildcard certificate.

Add a `domain_certificate` resource that links to the certificate to upload the file. For details on this resource, see [the provider documentation for certificates](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/domain_certificate). Be sure to include the` ----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----` and the `----END CERTIFICATE----` lines.

1. Use `terraform plan` and `terraform apply` to deploy the custom domain to Okta.

>     > **Note:** The Okta org must verify that you control the DNS records for this domain before you can use it in your Terraform configuration. Follow the steps in [Update the domain with the `CNAME` and `TXT` records](#update-the-domain-with-the-cname-and-txt-records), [Request domain verification](#request-domain-verification), and [Confirm your custom domain triggers Okta sign-in](#confirm-your-custom-domain-triggers-okta-sign-in) to verify the domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note:** The Okta org must verify that you control the DNS records for this domain before you can use it in your Terraform configuration. Follow the steps in [Update the domain with the `CNAME` and `TXT` records](#update-the-domain-with-the-cname-and-txt-records), [Request domain verification](#request-domain-verification), and [Confirm that your custom domain triggers  an Okta sign-in flow](#confirm-your-custom-domain-triggers-okta-sign-in) to verify the domain.
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

1. Add this `output` block to print the set of DNS records required for the domain.

    ```hcl
      output dns_records_to_update_company1 {
      value = okta_domain.company1.dns_records
    }
    ```

1. Run `terraform apply`.

1. Run `terraform output -json {outputVariableName}` to view the configuration information in JSON format. Okta recommends saving the output to a file for your records. For example, the command line for an output variable of `email_dns_records_to_update_company1` is:

    ```sh
    terraform output -json dns_records_to_update_company1 > dns_records.json
    ```

> 1. Review the JSON file for the required content: one object with a `record_type` attribute of `TXT` and another with a `record_type` attribute of `CNAME`. You'll use this output in the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Review the JSON file for the required content: one object with a `record_type` attribute of `TXT` and another with a `record_type` attribute of `CNAME`. Use this output in the next section.
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

   The content looks similar to the following:

  ```json
      "dns_records_to_update_company1" = [
        {
          "expiration": "2024-05-03T00:01:38.000Z",
          "fqdn": "_acme-challenge.company1.letsauth0.com",
          "record_type": "TXT",
          "values": [
            "NNQY-CZHKKHLKJKZODDYZOT5ZV3a7gM8-bxHc9o"
          ]
        },
        {
          "expiration": "",
          "fqdn": "company1.letsauth0.com",
          "record_type": "CNAME",
          "values": [
            "example-org.customdomains.oktapreview.com"
          ]
        }
      ]
  ```

### Update the domain with the CNAME and TXT records

> This step requires adding DNS records to the custom domain using your domains' service provider. This usually requires administrative access. If you do not have this access, contact your system administrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step requires adding DNS records to the custom domain using your domains' service provider. This usually requires administrative access. If you don't have this access, contact your system administrator.
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

The specific user interface or commands for adding the `CNAME` and `TXT` records depends on your service provider. Some may include automation using Terraform.

> The following are the generic steps to add the records. The specific interface will vary.

Author: Fix is in next commit.

1. Locate the JSON output from the [Create a custom domain resource](#create-a-custom-domain-resource).

> 1. Log into your domain provider for your custom domain and navigate to the domain record editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to your domain provider for your custom domain and navigate to the domain record editor.
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

> 1. Create a `CNAME` record that maps your custom brand to a domain that Okta creates just for this custom domain. The values you need for this step are in the object in the JSON output with a `record_type` of `"CNAME"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `CNAME` record that maps your custom brand to a domain that Okta creates just for this custom domain. The values that you need for this step are in the object in the JSON output with a `record_type` of `"CNAME"`.
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

    1. Set the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the `CNAME` record to the value of the `fqdn` field in the JSON output.

    1. Set the value of the `CNAME` record to the string in the `values` array of the JSON output. This is the name for your custom domain, such as `example-org.customdomains.oktapreview.com`.

    1. Save the new record in your ISP's control panel for DNS records.

1. Create a `TXT` record to support Okta domain verification. The values you need for this step are in the object in the JSON output with a `record_type` of `"TXT"`.

    1. Set the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the `TXT` record to the value of the `fqdn` field in the JSON output. Include any underscores that are at the start of the value.

    1. Set the value of the `TXT` record to the string in the `values` array of the JSON output. In the previous example of a JSON record, this value is `NNQY-CZHKKHLKJKZODDYZOT5ZV3a7gM8-bxHc9o`.

    1. Save the new record in your ISP's control panel for DNS records.

> 1. Wait until the DNS records propagate. This step may take up to twenty-four hours, though could take as little as 15 minutes. Check if your DNS records are available using a tool, such as [Dig](https://toolbox.googleapps.com/apps/dig/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Wait until the DNS records propagate. This step may take up to 24 hours, though could take as little as 15 minutes. Check if your DNS records are available using a tool, such as [Dig](https://toolbox.googleapps.com/apps/dig/).
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

### Request domain verification

> Request Okta domain verification once the DNS changes have propagated. Okta confirms that the `TXT` records for your domain contain the Okta-generated value proving that you control the domain. In addition, Okta checks the `CNAME` record if you're using an Okta-managed certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Request Okta domain verification after the DNS changes have propagated. Okta confirms that the `TXT` records for your domain contain the Okta-generated value proving that you control the domain. In addition, Okta checks the `CNAME` record if you're using an Okta-managed certificate.
```

Author: Fix is in next commit.

1. Add an [okta_domain_verification](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/domain_verification) Terraform resource to your configuration.

1. Set the `domain_id` attribute to your domain's ID:

    ```hcl
    resource "okta_domain_verification" "verify_okta" {
      domain_id = {okta_domain.brand1.id}
    }
    ```

1. Use `terraform plan` and `terraform apply` to deploy the domain verification resource. Okta may take up to fifteen minutes to check your domain. If the `terraform apply` command succeeds, verification succeeded, and you can proceed to the next step. If the command fails, wait a few minutes and try again.

> ### Confirm your custom domain triggers Okta sign-in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Confirm that your custom domain triggers an Okta sign-in flow
```

Author: Fixed in next commit and links to this section updated

> Open your custom domain in your browser. The Okta sign-In page should appear. If the page doesn't appear, it may be because your machine or DNS providers are caching the old records. You can try flushing the DNS cache using a tool such as [Google DNS ](https://google-public-dns.appspot.com/cache) or [Open DNS](https://cachecheck.opendns.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open your custom domain in your browser. The Okta sign-in page should appear. If the page doesn't appear, it may be because your machine or DNS providers are caching the old records. You can try flushing the DNS cache using a tool such as [Google DNS ](https://google-public-dns.appspot.com/cache) or [Open DNS](https://cachecheck.opendns.com/).
```

Author: Fixed in next commit

When everything works correctly, comment out the `output` block in your configuration that's used to return the DNS records that need changing.

### Update other objects and systems to use your custom domain

> 

Reviewer: can you add an intro sentence here? Avoid having two headings together with no content between them.

Author: Added the following sentence:

> Update any of your apps and authorization servers to use the desired custom domain.

Change is in next commit.

#### Update the issuer for any OpenID Connect (OIDC) apps

Consider changing the issuer URL for your OpenID Connect apps that use the built-in org authorization server. See the provider for [details about the app_oauth resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/okta/okta/latest/docs/resources/app_oauth).

> Choose a setting for the `issuer_mode` attribute. The most common setting is `DYNAMIC`. This uses either the organization URL or the custom domain URL depending on the domain of the system that requests the connection. The `CUSTOM_URL` setting enables a custom URL, but only when there's one brand. See [Custom URL is not Showing in the Issuer in the Custom Authorization Server Settings](https://support.okta.com/help/s/article/custom-issuer-url-is-not-showing-in-the-custom-server-settings?language=en_US).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose a setting for the `issuer_mode` attribute. The most common setting is `DYNAMIC`. This uses either the org URL or the custom domain URL depending on the domain of the system that requests the connection. The `CUSTOM_URL` setting enables a custom URL, but only when there's one brand. See [Custom URL is not showing in the Issuer in the Custom Authorization Server Settings](https://support.okta.com/help/s/article/custom-issuer-url-is-not-showing-in-the-custom-server-settings?language=en_US).
```

Author: Change is in next commit.

  label                      = "MyApp"
  type                       = "web"
  redirect_uris              = ["http://MyApp.example.com/authorization-code/callback"]
  response_types             = ["code"]
  grant_types                = ["authorization_code", "refresh_token", "client_credentials"]
  token_endpoint_auth_method = "private_key_jwt"

  implicit_assignment = true
  login_mode = "DISABLED"
  login_uri = "http://MyApp.example.com"

  …

  issuer_mode = CUSTOM_URL
}
```

#### Update the issuer for any custom authorization servers

Existing [custom authorization servers](/docs/concepts/auth-servers/) continue to use the Okta org URL unless you change it. All new custom authorization servers use the custom domain by default.

Update existing custom authorization servers to return the custom domain as the issuer value. The choices for the `issuer_mode` attribute are the same as those for [OIDC apps](#update-the-issuer-for-any-openid-connect-oidc-apps).

```hcl
resource "okta_auth_server" "example" {
  audiences   = ["api://example"]
  description = "My Example Auth Server"
  name        = "example"
  issuer_mode = "CUSTOM_URL"
  status      = "ACTIVE"
}
```

> #### Update external applications that connect to Okta

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Update external apps that connect to Okta
```

Author: Change is in next commit.

If you have external apps that use Okta endpoints with the uncustomized URL domain, update them to use the custom URL domain.

## Customize the look and the behavior of your brands

You can customize the look and the behavior of your brands. There are two main customization resources available to you in the Okta Terraform provider:

> * **Brand**: A high-level resource that contains some settings, such as a custom privacy policy, is associated with a custom domain. See the [Brands concept article](/docs/concepts/brands/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Brand**: A high-level resource that contains some settings, such as a custom privacy policy, is associated with a custom domain. See [Brands](/docs/concepts/brands/).
```

Author: Change is in next commit.

> * **Theme:** Settings that change the appearance of the user sign-in widget, such as the logo, background image, colors, and how the colors are applied. Each brand has only one theme, which Okta creates automatically when the brand is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Theme:** Settings that change the appearance of the Okta Sign-In Widget, such as the logo, background image, colors, and how the colors are applied. Each brand has only one theme, which Okta creates automatically when the brand is created.
```
